Application Safety Policy (ASP)
Version: 1.0
Author/owner: Yahia Loay

Definitions:

When we refer to “User approval” or “User permission”, we mean that the user has given explicit consent through a popup, textbox, or any other method that can be used to obtain user consent.


Terms:


1. Network connections (T1.1)

Do not create or maintain network connections without explicit user approval

You or your application shall not create, maintain or store network connections except when at least one of these conditions is met:


A. The user sends a network connection or "message" by connecting to the server(s) of the application(s) (e.g., when the user sends a message...). 

B. The network connection is essential or a part of the application (“e.g., when the user sends a message...”).

C. No personal or system data is transmitted through the network connection

D. The user can easily opt out of the connection using a clearly visible option within the application.

These terms are considered completely violated if:

1. Your application sends/stores personal data or system data

2. The user cannot opt-out or the application is hard for any user to opt-out 


2. Data (T2.1)


A. User data or system data must not be processed without explicit user permission.

User data such as files, folders, text files, etc. must not be processed or stored without explicit user permission

B. Passwords and tokens must be encrypted and not stored as plain text.

User(s) password(s) or token(s) must be encrypted 

C. Temporary data must be deleted when no longer needed.



3. User privacy (T3.1)

A. The service provider(s) must notify the user(s) of the application(s) in case of a data breach.

The service provider(s) must notify all users in case of a data breach within 24 hours
The same applies if the service(s) were/was hacked

B. The service(s) must not store, track or identify user data

The service(s) must not store or track user(s) data without user consent
User data in this section includes (but are not limited to): User ip, location, tracking id, etc.

C. Users must be able to view and delete all collected data.

User(s) of the service(s) must be able to delete all collected data
Collected data means all data that the service(s) collected only about the user

D. No hidden telemetry or analytics systems are allowed unless clearly stated and accepted by the user.



4. Device access (T4.1)

A. Access to system resources such as (camera, microphone, location, GPS, etc.) must require explicit user consent

B. Applications must not request access to hardware that are unrelated to their function

C. The user must be able to delete the app or revoke all permissions requested by the app


5. File downloads (T5.1)

A. Applications must not download or execute files without user consent

B. Users must have the option to disable automatic file downloads


6. Execution (T6.1)

A. Applications must not modify system files (such as registries, configurations, or any kind of system file) without consent from the user

B. Executing scripts, shell commands, or background activites must require consent and knowledge from the user

C. Self-replicating or self-modifying behavior is strictly prohibited.


7. Data collection (T7.1)

A. The developer(s) of the application(s) must clearly state what data is collected, stored, or transmitted

B. The user must be informed if any third-party libraries or services are used.

C. All privacy-releated actions must be documented in the application


8. Monitoring or logging (T8.1)

A. All applications must clearly state what data is being logged

B. All applications must inform and get the user's aggrement to collect the specified data

C. Logs must not include personal user's data or sensitive data or sensitive system data.

D. The user must be able to delete all logs at any time 


9. Third-party integration (T9.1)

A. All external services must follow the same privacy requirements (stated in this whole document)

B. Developers are responsible for ensuring that the integrated dependencies follow this document.


10. End of Support (T10.1)

A. If the application becomes unsupported, The application must notify users before shutdown.
B. If the application is a save-storage application (An application that allows it's users to store their data on the application), All the user's data on the application should be exportable
C. No new background activity or data collection should continue after discontinuation.

11. Enforcment (T11.1)

A. We have the right to take action against if your application does not follow these rules while claiming it does (Adding this license to the program)

-----------LEGAL--------------
This license is provided “as is.”  


Using this security policy means that you agree to all the terms and conditions stated in this document.
Breaking the rules of this license while claiming that you agree to all these rules (by adding this license to your application) may result in your application being revoked

[Application Safety Policy](https://github.com/yahiagaming495/Application-Safety-Policy) © 2025 by [Yahia Loay](https://github.com/yahiagaming495/) is licensed under CC BY-NC-ND 4.0

--------How to comply---------
To comply with this license you must add this license including this section and all sections to your program's "About" or "Legal" section
If the application is a CLI-application, You must create a command (e.g. "show legal") that shows this whole license including all sections (Legal and how-to-comply section included)
You must also mention this command in an easily-visible-to-the-user way (e.g. on program startup, whether GUI or CLI)


